Let's end this section on.
Look up in reference formulas I revisit in the topic of multi criteria.
Look up!
That's open up the final word book zero late.
Let me first of all remind you off the issue that we had.
We want to find out the cost,
the beat of the items that were sold.
But in order to do so when we look up data in the purchases table,
we need to identify not only the purchase I t,
but also the product i d.
And just to remind you the solution that me used early.
Yeah,
we simply created a competent key in both of the worksheets.
And then we were able to use this using a simple the look up statement.
So we'll now give ourselves more challenge and say that we've got a situation in which it
simply isn't practical to create a composite key in both worksheets.
One such scenario might be the one in which the purchases worksheet is constantly updated.
So as soon as you create your composite key,
a new version of the worksheet comes along,
which doesn't have the composite key.
So the solution on proposing is fairly complicated So what we'll do is to take it one step
at a time.
And to make things clearer will create some temporary helper columns,
which we can then either delete or hide once we've got the final formula.
So let's begin by inserting three columns for the left of the cost column on the approach
that we're going to take is to exploit the fact that the data is sorted by purchase i d.
On.
What we'll do is to try and identify but first and last row for each of the purchase I ds.
Once we've identified that we can then to look up only within those rose in the product i d
column.
And since there will be no repetitions of product,
I D.
Within that small range we can therefore identity by which of these rows contains the Majin
products I D.
And that will be the one from which we take back the unit cost price.
So are three help of columns will be top row bottom row and then the product I d wrote to
find the top and bottom row will use the match function and then we'll exploit the fact
that the match function has a match type argument,
which,
when dealing with multiple results,
will either find the first along the last.
So to find the top row,
the use equals match and,
of course,
were looking in purchase I D.
C.
To because this is the one that has the repetitions comma.
And then I'll look up array in purchases.
Will be column see the purchase i d column and just remind you that this will only work if
the data is sorted by that column in ascending order comma.
And then we simply use exact match because when we have repetitions,
use an exact match will always target the first of those repetitions.
And is this implies this solution is not going to be highly optimized solution.
You're using it with lots of data.
It may actually be quite slow.
That's our function.
And then the formula for the bottom row is identical,
apart from the fact that the final argument becomes one.
So we've got an approximate match,
which will then pick up the last of our repeated rose so you can see this is going from
3492357 Misters,
check that it's accurate So we've got a purchase idea of 269711 on the road 349 And there's
the last of our rose.
357 The fact that match enables us to isolate the matrix that applies to each purchase I d
buy.
Tell anus the top and bottom row numbers.
It means that we can now use our new best friend from the last video the indirect function
to target the adjacent colon Be and do look up the product i d.
But only within those rose.
So we'll know there'll be no repetition of the product i d.
Within the Rose applying to a particular purchase i d.
So when we specify the look up range,
we simply can.
Katyn ate the match functions which will calculate the top and bottom rose because we know
that regardless of the role numbers,
it will always be column B.
So we're doing another match,
but this time will messed the indirect function inside it equals match old enter and I look
out Value is the product i d comma all counter.
So to supply the look up array we use indirect and then we need to assemble a string using
concatenation,
and we know we'll be working in the purchases work Street exclamation mark and we know
we'll be working in column B.
Then we can.
Captain ate the top row,
which we've calculated in H two and percent,
and we need Colon Be and we can.
Katyn ate the bottom road that completes our string.
That completes indirect,
which just to remind you is the second look up array argument of match so common to end
that argument,
Altanta and then the match type would use one because it's faster Walt enter and the
closing parenthesis.
So within that small matrix product,
I D 43 occurs on the seventh row.
So it's not the seventh row.
The worksheet.
It's 1/7 row of the Matrix,
which contains that particular party,
Saidi.
That's copy all about four minutes down and then let's assemble them into one main formula
.
So equals index old enter.
We start by specifying the array,
which will be column G using the same technique that we used here.
So in direct quotes,
name of work feet,
exclamation mark and then call it G and percent tank on the top row Empress end back into
quotes.
Colon G and percent.
The bottom right?
So that's our indirect.
So that's the Matrix within which we're looking Walt enter.
And then to specify the road within that matrix,
we use the formula that we have in the product I The row column,
Altanta and the clothes in parenthesis.
There we have our cost.
So let's just test that it's working.
So this is product idea 43 and it's in Row three for nine plus seven.
There's our Matrix and there's product 43 on.
We can see that we have a price of 42.7 So to finish off,
we can dispense without help of columns.
Let's do everything in turn.
First of all,
we need the code for H two.
So old enter on hte to goes here.
Then I two let's do another old enter on replace I two with its formula
and then finally J two.
Let's align the indentation and there we have it.
We now have a choice of either deleting these three help the columns What?
We could just hide them and to finish we can just copy the formula down